Generalising article to include IOTA (#1257)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/learn/governance/governance-tech.md

---
title: Governance Voting Explained
description: A technical description of the Governance functionality in IOTA & Shimmer
image: /img/learn/governance/vote-graphic04.png
keywords:
  - Documentation
  - Firefly
  - Hornet INX
  - Voting
  - Shimmer
  - IOTA
  - Governance
---

> On-chain governance is essential for any decentralized DLT. The ability to make decisions through voting functionalities executed on the Blockchain / DAG removes a centralization point and gives token holders the power to make their own decisions. IOTA and Shimmer token holders can now carry out governance decisions with the Firefly Wallet.

Reviewer: "Carry out" in this context seems to imply that they execute the voted action instead of voting.

Author: Ah yes - that may be confusing, changed that

> On-chain governance is essential for any decentralized DLT. The ability to make decisions through voting functionalities executed on the Blockchain / DAG removes a centralization point and gives token holders the power to make their own decisions. IOTA and Shimmer token holders can now carry out governance decisions with the Firefly Wallet.

Author: ```suggestion
On-chain governance is essential for any decentralized DLT. The ability to make decisions through voting functionalities executed on the Blockchain / DAG removes a centralization point and gives token holders the power to make their own decisions. IOTA and Shimmer token holders can now engage in governance with the Firefly Wallet.
```
